## Compile and run a java application

To compile and run a java application simply write some source code.

*HelloWorld.java*:

```java
public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!");
    }
}
```

After this we kick off the java compiler to build the .java code
into bytecode by running `javac HelloWorld.java`.
Then we can run the application using the jvm `java HelloWorld`.
Note that you don't have to specify the `.class` extension.

## Clean Code

The abstraction of code increases steadily, C# is more complex than
assenbly. Less developers are required to build more complex applications.

Bad code can ruin a company and productivity sinks rapidly.
Small changes are only possible in a big amount of time.

The development team should not be ...
   ... under time pressure.
   ... not influenced by external factors.

But *what is clean code?*?

Code should be elegant and easy to read. There sould not be one
single rotten area in the code.

"Makes the code look like it was designed for this problem."

This is important because we read ten times more code than we write.
In addition every peace of code we look at should be improved.


## Effetive Java

Use a static factory instead of constructor when we want to give
an explicit name what the factory does.
In addition we have full control over the created object.
However, if a class does not have public constructor we can
not inherit from this class.

The builder pattern helps to create objects with multiple fields
when we call an empty constructor and fill everything with setter methods.

Enums in java are singletons, there is only one instance per jvm.
Singletons howerver are more an antipatern than a pattern nowerdays.

Enforce non instanciability with a private constructor instead of
making the class abstract.

Avoid to create unnescesary objects:

```java
String s = new String("hello");
String s = "hello";
```
